[CHIMES]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The tradition of knowledge of
the Yuga System is, of course,
the duration of the yugas and
of the Yuga Cycle in general.
That duration is sort of a
strange figure when you first
look at it, but it is
precisely 6,048 years.
As we continue,
we'll see exactly why
that number emerges as the
key to the entire mystery
of cyclic time.
We also learn that the
yugas appear in sets of 10
and at 10 yugas was
called the Mahakalpa.
Thus, we have a
single cycle that
is a little over 6,000 years
which occurs in sets of 10,
giving us a roughly
60,000 year cycle overall.
The first yuga is referred to
as both the Satya or the Krita
Yuga.
Krita in Sanskrit means
the Age of Consciousness
and Accomplishment.
The Greeks called
this the Golden Age.
With the metallic
association of the ages,
we enter a kind of sense
of the alchemy of time.
The second age is
the age of ritual.
It's the Treta Yuga.
In terms of its metallic
value, it is silver.
And it is in the age
that urbanization began.
The Treta is called the
Age of the Three Fires.
The fire was the
fire and smoke that
emerges from the beginning
of dense human settlement
and the beginning of technology.
The other fires are
the fires of ceremony
and the fires of the
individual death and cremation.
As the population
moved and densified,
new methods of burial began
to emerge that did not
occupy the former time phases.
This is the age when we see
the beginning of cremation.
The third age is
called the Dvapara,
and it means the Age of Doubt.
It's metal is bronze or copper.
This is the beginning of a
sensing of the limited duration
of the whole cyclic
process of the emergence
of the final and
perfected human form.
The last is the Age of Kali.
This is the age in
which there is a mixing
of the blood of all races.
The last age of Kali
is a concluding age
in a cycle of 60,480 years.
This is, of course,
the Iron Age,
and Kali is the agent of
conflict and destruction.
The Kali Yuga is 1
times 6,048 years.
The Dvapara Yuga is 2 times
6,048 years, which is 12,096.
The Treta Yuga is 3 times
6,048 years, or 18,192 years.
Then the golden age
is 24,192 years.
The setting of our number
system as cycles of 10
is an application to an
understanding of the Yuga
Cycle.
There were other
cultures like Babylon
that had a system
based on six and 60.
But the one that
has sustained itself
through to the end of the
Kali Yuga is the system of 10.
We must look at numbers
in terms of each number
being a fraction of
an original unity.
Each number then becomes a unit.
It is an arithmetic progression
with the increase each time
of one unit like a partitioning
of an overall, all-containing
unity.
Then we get to the end of the
cycle of the partitioning,
or division of unity.
This is the basic container
of its largest scale of time.
It is very interesting that
10 is a negation of number
because anything times 0
multiplied with 0 is 0.
10 is a signal of a
completion and conclusion
and the end of a
cycle of creation.
This number series reiterates
the basic pattern of time
and that is especially
applicable to the human being
who signifies his belonging
to this system of time
through five fingers, five
toes, and five appendages, two
arms, two legs, and the head.
The number seven is the
principal and primary unit
that expresses itself
through the Yuga System.
The name of the number seven
contains the word even.
This nomenclature is based on
the fact that 1 times 2 times
3 times 4 times 5 times
6 times 7 equals 5,040.
We have seven, bringing
forth a number that
is exactly equal to
the radius of the Earth
and the radius of the moon.
Then if you continue, we find
that 7 times 8 times 9 times
10 also equals 5,040.
So seven is the
break-off point that
establishes an even
summation, and that summation
is inherent in the number 10.
These equations are expressed
by the balance point of seven.
All of it is a reference
to the nature of time.
Our number system is
based on the entire yuga
structure of time.
Also, seven in French is sept.
And it is the same root sound
that we have in such words
as serpent and Seth, the
Egyptian god of destruction.
It is a homonym of Set, which
means knowledge and light.
Set is also the planet Saturn.
In ancient times,
Saturn was also
referred to as the seventh
planet and the second sun.
It could be that there once
was a habitation on a planet
closer to Saturn whose
energy was creative in terms
of the processes of
life in the same way
that the sun is to
our earthly location.
Indeed, NASA has
reported finding complex,
organic, and
carbon-based molecules
on the surface of Titan,
one of Saturn's moons,
including mass quantities of
methane, ethane, and vinyl
cyanide, which planetary
scientists theorizes
similar to Earth's
primordial atmosphere.
Set in the Egyptian myth
is the villain character
who brings an end to
the life of Osiris.
The name Osiris is
very closely associated
with the spelling of Sirius.
Osiris is the
mythic configuration
representing the human species.
He is the one that
at a certain point
develops urbanization
and agriculture.
The entire development of Osiris
is an analog to the development
that man has made on Earth.
In the golden age, he left
the earth as a Garden of Eden,
just like what is reiterated in
variation in the Old Testament.
Later, he set himself into
a life of constant labor
through agriculture.
This is all reiterated
in the myth of Osiris.
Set, related to seven, is
both the mother and destroyer
of the proportions of
the Earth and moon, which
are of critical importance to
generating the vibration which
allows substance to
become conscious.
Another important
point mentioned
was the relationship between the
timing of the birth of Buddha
and the birth of Christ and
that the Puranas specifically
say that Buddha is the
avatar of the Kali Yuga.
Information from several
of the Puranic texts
tell us that the
teachings of Buddha
contain the formula for the
transformation of consciousness
into a sense of individuality.
It's a teaching of
rising above the ego
to the true individual self.
This teaching in
its deformed state
became a sense of
self-realization
and self-righteousness
not on the spiritual,
but on the material
sense and led
to the whole idea of
realization through accumulation
of wealth and power.
That teaching in its lower
form became the theory
of capitalism, the
role of the individual
and is consuming, acquiring,
and acquisitive processes, which
were a huge
enhancement to commerce
and allowed the whole
of the Kali Yuga
to be dominated by
the commercial caste.
This is not in any way a
derogatory view of Buddhism.
Buddhism is an
ingenious creation
that hastened and assured
the direction or termination
of this phase of our
development in terms
of the prescribed
directives of time.
Buddha was actually fulfilling
the harmonics of the duration
of the Kali Yuga.
The remarkable aspect
of his teachings
is that it brings about the
destructive attitudes that
lead to the destruction
of the Earth
through our almost insane
obsession with consumption.
He also gave a
formula, which would
allow people who are aware of
and sensitive to the nature
of time to be able to
confront this direction.
That is the detachment, the
argument that this material
world is only an illusion.
This fortified the ability
to confront and face
the disillusion with courage
and a kind of dignity.
Those are several
major points that
continue to draw
upon and reinforce
the symbolism and the
possible accuracy of this very
ancient prophetic system.
Let's examine the idea of how
the human organism is embedded
in the cyclic processes
and pulsations of time
within the entire
vast cycles of time
called the yugas and the
procession of the equinox.
Our breathing and our
heartbeat are time intervals
that are resonant
within the pulsation
and patterns of the Earth.
For example, the human breath,
a normal full inhalation
and exhalation, if it's not
cramped or reduced or repressed
by nervous tension, requires
four seconds of time.
60 of these breaths, or pranas,
as they're called in India,
is equal to the time
necessary for the Earth
to rotate one degree.
Another interesting
statistic is that
in a complete sidereal
day, a human being
should breathe 21,600 breaths.
A harmonic of this
number 2,160 is of course
the duration of years in
one sign of the zodiac
and is the measurement of the
diameter of the moon in miles.
In ancient times, the fathom is
a length of both arms extended.
Using Egyptian measures,
we find that a sphere
with the circumference
measuring 21,600,000 arms
spans, or fathoms, is
a close approximation
of the equator of the Earth.
The Earth's polar ice
cap, which comes down
to the 74th or 75th
latitude, is frozen ice.
And this is in
proportion to the globe
equals the proportion of
what the Egyptians called
the skullcap, which encloses
the cerebral cortex.
This is the part
of the brain that
has undergone tremendous
neurological changes
during the Kali Yuga,
especially in response
to the great drought that began
at the beginning of the Kali
Yuga.
Archeologists have
verified the time period
we've chosen as the
beginning of the Kali Yuga.
3606 BC is a close
approximation to the beginning
of the drying that caused
the Middle East, the Iranian
Plateau, Arabia,
and Northern Africa
to go into a sudden
reduction of rainfall.
This drought affected
security and a sense of life
and induced the fear of hunger.
Starvation caused the beginning
of refugee populations, people
breaking connection with
the lands of their birth
and moving around, not
necessarily nomadically,
but searching for places
to settle and resettle.
In our examination of the human
body, moving from the skullcap
to the hand and
finger, we find this
is the key to understanding
the entire system
of Egyptian measure.
And all of these measures
are relative to the forms
and structures of the Earth.
With Egyptian measure, the
width of a finger is a digit.
Four digits is a palm.
And seven palms of four
digits is a royal cubit.
A cubit can also be measured
from the extended hand
to the elbow.
Let's look to the crown
of the skull, which
is a big focus point in
terms of the Egyptian view
of human evolution.
And, remember, this
skullcap is symbolized
by the scarab in Egypt.
If you place the palm of the
hand at the top of your head,
you get the exact measure
of the crown of the skull.
Its size is one palm.
Then if you count three
palms down, or 12 fingers,
you get to the jaw.
And the whole
capacity for speech
is contained in that palm.
Then you go underneath, and
the fourth palm of four digits
reaches the voice box, which
allows for the articulation
of language.
The conception to the
articulation processes
of a human being are found
in the first four palms.
This is the genius
of Egypt, the way
they understood the relationship
between man and Earth.
Schwaller de Lubicz,
the great Egyptologist,
said that the Egyptians really
believed in the anthropocosm
that the measures and
proportions of the human body
contained the
significant dimensions
of the entire universe.
Let's review some of the
astronomical associations
with the proportion of 18.618.
This is actually a
golden mean number,
as it is 18 plus 1 over phi.
The square of this number,
18.618 times 18.618,
is the number of
days in an eclipse
year, which is 346.62 days.
An eclipse year is
calculated as the number
of days between two successive
conjunctions of the sun
with the same node
of the moon's orbit.
The moon is positioned and is
of the exact size necessary so
that at an eclipse,
it completely
covers the sun, which is
93 million miles away.
The sun is approximately 400
times larger than the moon.
The moon is nearly
1/400 the distance
between the Earth and the sun.
Because of this
amazing coincidence,
the moon perfectly covers
the sun in a total eclipse.
In addition to the eclipse
year, 18.618 times 19.618
equals 365.25, which is
exactly the solar year.
18.618 times 20.168
is 383.89 days,
which is the exact
duration of 13 lunar
cycles of 29.5 days each.
The more you allow yourself to
examine the geometry of time
and space, the more the ideas
that this process which we're
in is based on
chance or probability
and those whole
concepts which dominate
the Darwinian idea of evolution
become completely absurd.
It's either childish
notions or it's fabricated.
In other words,
intentional disinformation.
The total human body's height
contains approximately seven
heads in total.
Women are almost exactly
seven heads in height,
while men tend to be 7
and 1/2 heads in height.
But with careful
measurement, as far
as the height of
an average woman,
you will find that it is not
just 7, but it is 7.142 heads.
It's not a whole number.
It's an irrational number,
a continuous decimal
into infinity.
Not only is the human
body using seven heads
to describe its height, it
also has seven meridian points
running up and
down the human body
as the subtle centers
of energy that
emanate from the seven chakras.
To the left and to the
right are the energies
that from the meridians
extend and emanate
into the field that
surrounds the body, which
the Egyptians called the ka.
We are this 14th part of 1,000.
What 1,000 represents
in Indian thought
is three levels of existence.
We saw 10 as the
number of the divisions
that unity makes to
create the harmonics
in the vibratory world, which
leads to all these harmonics
within the formal world.
Seven and 14 are the number of
fields that are generated back
into the vibratory environment.
We can begin to see the
entire process of embodiment
by understanding its resonance
with certain configurations
of time.
This is the process in
which the energy goes
from an energetic state into an
embodied or substantiated state
and then back again.
It is sustained physiologically
with the constant composing
and decomposing of tissue.
It is a process that
causes an emanation,
and that decomposed substance
emanates itself resonantly back
into a field.
Life and embodiment is
moving from a wave situation
to a particle structure as they
have found in quantum theory.
From particle to wave and
from wave into particle,
this is the succession
of matter from waveform
to form and back again.
The texts that are supposedly
the most authentic concerning
the life of Buddha are
found in Tibet and India,
particularly the texts
found in Sri Lanka.
They say that Buddha lived
for 78 years, born in 621 BC,
and died in 543 BC.
That's a duration of 78 years.
His realization is
said to have occurred,
as the same with Christ,
when he was 33 years old.
That occurs in the
midpoint of his life.
That means that the
midpoint of his life
and his spiritual
realization is exactly
at 582 BC, the very
center of the Kali Yuga.
Buddha was born in the
age of Aries, which is
the first sign of the zodiac.
In approximately 150 BC, we
change from the sign of Aries
to the sign of Pisces.
Thus, we have 432 years
separating the birth of Buddha
from the beginning
of the age of Pisces.
And, as we have seen, 432 is
one of the major multiples
of the procession.
The Puranas prophesied
that amongst the barbarians
of the West, an avatar who is
simply an extension of Buddha
would arise.
Many people have interpreted
that the second phase
of the avatar of
Buddha is Christ.
Let's take a look at the
key dates concerning Christ.
It appears that the birth of
Christ was either 3 or 4 AD.
This means that he was
born in the age of Pisces.
There is much medieval
symbolism which
associates Christ as the
dominant figure of the Piscean
Age.
It's very interesting
that Buddha
is the dominant figure
coming from the age of Aries
and Christ is the dominant
figure of the Piscean Age.
Christ was said to
have his realization
through a sacrificial ritual
33 years after year 4,
which would make it 37 AD.
The sacrificial ritual was
the Resurrection of Christ.
This begins a series of numbers
based on the intervals of 37.
This is again three and
seven, the key numbers
in the merger of the precession
with the Yuga System.
All of the dates then in
this yuga can start with 37.
37 is a very interesting
number because it
is what we call the
number of the triplicity.
Every time you multiply a 2
or a multiple of 3 times 37,
you get a triple number.
3 times 37 is 111.
6 times 37 is 222.
This triplicity
continues all the way
through the number 999,
which is 37 times 27.
Additionally, we can
follow the succession of 37
up to the date of the end
of the Kali Yuga, which
is 37 times 66, or 2,444.
It's one of the more
interesting explorations
of the symbolic
nature of our history
to go through the
multiples of 37.
One of the most prominent
and most interesting
will be the appearance
of the United States
and the origins of that country.
1776 is a multiple
of 37 times 48, which
is the number of states
in the first completed
union of the United States.
It is also the birthday
of the politically active
and historically
formative secret
society known as the Illuminati.
The Illuminati was
started by a Jesuit
priest named Adam Weishaupt.
There is ample
evidence that he was
a main influence on
Benjamin Franklin
and the founders of the United
States, even to the degree
that the Washington Monument
is exactly 555 feet high,
which is 15 times 37.
The entire street
design of Washington
is based on an angle
of 72 degrees, which
is descriptive of a Pentagon.
We will get to the Pentagon
and its importance in the yuga
and in the story of
mankind in later episodes.
All these numbers
are multiples of 37.
The year 1665, which is
the great plague of London,
is 37 times 45.
The year 1998, which
is 37 times 54,
is when the sun returned
to direct alignment
with the center of the galaxy.
All of these are yuga dates
set by the resurrection
of the body of Christ.
Christ, his death
and resurrection,
is the symbol for the
Kali Yuga's potential
for the death and resurrection
of the entire body
of the human species.
In this way, we can see
that the Buddha taught
us to meditate and
accept the coming
destruction of ourselves, both
as a body and as a species,
while the teachings
of Christ were
to show us that a resurrection
of the body and of the species
is absolutely possible.
Both Buddha and Jesus Christ,
avatars of the Kali Yuga,
gave our species
knowledge and tools
that will help us endure
the destructive tendencies
of our age.
[MUSIC PLAYING]